---
title: "setup details"
bg: black
color: white
fa-icon: toggle-on
---

## Instructor Instructions for Math 120

The structure of this course is very different from most math courses. The overall goal is to build the class around activities that get students to engage with the material instead of getting students to expand their computational capacity by simply having them do rote calculations.

__Daily routine:__ In order to create a consistent feel to the course, every class is structured in the same way.

* __Pre-class materials:__ Students are expected to complete online work before the class. This work is automatically corrected and graded. Students will be able to rework the problems as many times as they need to in order to get the problems right. By flipping the class in this way, we can increase the level of teacher-student interaction during the actual class period.
* __Quiz:__ At the start of every day, there will be a timed 5-minute quiz. Timing the quiz is important as we want to give the students as much time as possible to be working on in-class activities. It is very easy for an untimed 5-minute quiz to take 15 minutes. Start the quiz right at the beginning of class. When the 5 minutes are up, collect the homework and quizzes from the students. (Recommendation: Use a digital timer with an audio alarm. That gives the students a clear signal that it's time to move on to the next thing. And they don't ever argue with the alarm.)
* __In-Class Activities:__ While there may be varying amount of lecture from one class to the next, the lecture is not the goal. The goal is for students to engage the materials themselves by working on the class activities that have been provided.
  * __Course slides:__ For each class, there are a set of slides in a Desmos Activity titled __Homework__. Again, the goal is not for you to lecture the entire time, so do not spend too much time going into elaborate discussions about the finer nuances of the subject. (The students won't appreciate it on multiple levels.) The slides have actual activities for the students to work on in pairs. These activities require a laptop or other internet device, so encourage the students to bring their devices daily. Students are expected to write their work neatly and turn it in at the end of class.
  * __Course assistant:__ We are planning to have a course assistant help with the class. The course assistant is a good student (not necessarily the best student) whose general responsibility is to improve the outcomes of the course. There is a separate section for the course assistants below.
* __End of Class:__ Collect the in-class activities. Each group will hand in just one write-up for all the group members.


Pay very close attention to the clock as you're working through the materials. There is a lot of content each day, so you need to keep on pace and keep working through the materials so that you can get through it all in time. 

## Suggested Grading Policy

* __Quizzes__ 10%
* __Pre-Class__ 15%
* __In-Class__ 10%
* __Homework__ 10%
* __Probability Exam__ 15%
* __Modeling Exam__ 15%
* __Consumer Math Portfolio__ 10%
* __Final Project__ 15%


** Course Assistant

A course assistant can be a valuable resource to students and faculty. The course assistant helps students by encouraging them in their work and holding weekly review sessions. The course assistant acts as the eyes and ears of the professor in gauging the students understanding level and enthusiasm. Below we outline some of the duties and expectations for the course assistant.

* Attend each class session.
* Actively participate as a member of the class, even asking legitimate questions as they arise.
* During group work problems sit with a group and participate. Help them to gain the confidence to experiment and evaluate their work and to write up their conclusions. Confidence can be as important as competence.
* Work with a different group each time. Rotate through all the groups.
* Outside of class the instructor will give the course assistant the names of students who might need some extra help or encouragement. Under the guidance of the instructor, the course assistant will contact these students to offer help and encouragement. 
* Report back to the instructor regularly on any concerns and questions the students have.
* Take an active role in the class discussion board in resolving student questions.
* Complete all of the homework assignments that the students will be working on. There is no other way for the course assistant to feel comfortable helping other students without first completing the work themselves. This course is not like any other course they have taken.




